README.md, before:

[![](https://jitpack.io/v/adamko-dev/kotlinx-serialization-typescript-generator.svg)](https://jitpack.io/#adamko-dev/kotlinx-serialization-typescript-generator)

# Kotlinx Serialization TypeScript Generator

Create TypeScript interfaces from Kotlinx Serialization classes.

```kotlin
@Serializable
class MyClass(
  val aString: String,
  var anInt: Int,
  val aDouble: Double,
  val bool: Boolean,
  private val privateMember: String,
)

fun main() {
  val tsGenerator = KxsTsGenerator()
  println(tsGenerator.generate(MyClass.serializer()))
}
```

Generated TypeScript interface:

```typescript
export interface MyClass {
  aString: string;
  anInt: number;
  aDouble: number;
  bool: boolean;
  privateMember: string;
}
```

The aim is to create TypeScript interfaces that can accurately produce Kotlinx Serialization
compatible JSON.

The Kotlinx Serialization API should be used to generate TypeScript. The
[`SerialDescriptor`s](https://kotlin.github.io/kotlinx.serialization/kotlinx-serialization-core/kotlinx.serialization.descriptors/-serial-descriptor/index.html)
are flexible and comprehensive enough to allow for accurate TypeScript code, without any deviation.

See [the docs](./docs) for working examples.

## Status

This is a proof-of-concept.

|                                       | Status                                                   | Notes                                                                                            |
|---------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Kotlin multiplatform                  | ❓                                                        | The codebase is multiplatform, but only JVM has been tested                                      |
| `@SerialName`                         | ✅/⚠                                                      | The serial name is directly converted and might produce invalid TypeScript                       |
| Basic classes                         | ✅       [example](./docs/basic-classes.md)               |                                                                                                  |
| Nullable and default-value properties | ✅       [example](./docs/default-values.md)              |                                                                                                  |
| Value classes                         | ✅       [example](./docs/value-classes.md)               |                                                                                                  |
| Enums                                 | ✅       [example](./docs/enums.md)                       |                                                                                                  |
| Lists                                 | ✅       [example](./docs/lists.md)                       |                                                                                                  |
| Maps                                  | ✅/⚠     [example](./docs/maps.md)                        | Maps with complex keys are converted to an ES6 Map, [see](./docs/maps.md#maps-with-complex-keys) |
| Polymorphism - Sealed classes         | ✅/⚠     [example](./docs/polymorphism.md#sealed-classes) | Nested sealed classes are ignored, [see](./docs/polymorphism.md#nested-sealed-classes)           |
| Polymorphism - Open classes           | ❌       [example](./docs/abstract-classes.md)            | Not implemented. Converted to `type MyClass = any`                                               |
| `@JsonClassDiscriminator`             | ❌                                                        | Not implemented                                                                                  |
| Edge cases - circular dependencies    | ✅       [example](./docs/edgecases.md)                   |                                                                                                  |

Commit message:

Refine implementation (#14)
- workaround for json content polymorphic + test
- fix element ID name extraction (handle other SerialDescriptors that have < > in them)
- fix knit tests not running
- fix generic test #11

README.md, after:

[![](https://jitpack.io/v/adamko-dev/kotlinx-serialization-typescript-generator.svg)](https://jitpack.io/#adamko-dev/kotlinx-serialization-typescript-generator)

# Kotlinx Serialization TypeScript Generator

[Kotlinx Serialization TypeScript Generator](https://github.com/adamko-dev/kotlinx-serialization-typescript-generator)
creates TypeScript interfaces from
[Kotlinx Serialization](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlinx.serialization/)
classes.

```kotlin
@Serializable
class MyClass(
  val aString: String,
  var anInt: Int,
  val aDouble: Double,
  val bool: Boolean,
  private val privateMember: String,
)

fun main() {
  val tsGenerator = KxsTsGenerator()
  println(tsGenerator.generate(MyClass.serializer()))
}
```

Generated TypeScript interface:

```typescript
export interface MyClass {
  aString: string;
  anInt: number;
  aDouble: number;
  bool: boolean;
  privateMember: string;
}
```

The aim is to create TypeScript interfaces that can accurately produce Kotlinx Serialization
compatible JSON.

The Kotlinx Serialization API should be used to generate TypeScript. The
[`SerialDescriptor`s](https://kotlin.github.io/kotlinx.serialization/kotlinx-serialization-core/kotlinx.serialization.descriptors/-serial-descriptor/index.html)
are flexible and comprehensive enough to allow for accurate TypeScript code, without any deviation.

The aim is to create TypeScript interfaces that can accurately produce Kotlinx Serialization
compatible JSON.

The Kotlinx Serialization API should be used to generate TypeScript. The
[`SerialDescriptor`s](https://kotlin.github.io/kotlinx.serialization/kotlinx-serialization-core/kotlinx.serialization.descriptors/-serial-descriptor/index.html)
are flexible and comprehensive enough to allow for accurate TypeScript code, without any deviation.

See [the docs](./docs) for working examples.

## Status

This is a proof-of-concept.

|                                       | Status                                                          | Notes                                                                                                          |
|---------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Kotlin multiplatform                  | ❓                                                               | The codebase is multiplatform, but only JVM has been tested                                                    |
| `@SerialName`                         | ✅/⚠                                                             | The serial name is directly converted and might produce invalid TypeScript                                     |
| Basic classes                         | ✅   [example](./docs/basic-classes.md)                          |                                                                                                                |
| Nullable and default-value properties | ✅   [example](./docs/default-values.md)                         |                                                                                                                |
| Value classes                         | ✅   [example](./docs/value-classes.md)                          |                                                                                                                |
| Enums                                 | ✅   [example](./docs/enums.md)                                  |                                                                                                                |
| Lists                                 | ✅   [example](./docs/lists.md)                                  |                                                                                                                |
| Maps                                  | ✅/⚠ [example](./docs/maps.md)                                   | Maps with complex keys are converted to an ES6 Map, [see documentation](./docs/maps.md#maps-with-complex-keys) |
| Polymorphism - Sealed classes         | ✅/⚠ [example](./docs/polymorphism.md#sealed-classes)            | Nested sealed classes are ignored, [see documentation](./docs/polymorphism.md#nested-sealed-classes)           |
| Polymorphism - Open classes           | ❌   [example](./docs/abstract-classes.md)                       | Not implemented. Converted to `type MyClass = any`                                                             |
| `@JsonClassDiscriminator`             | ❌                                                               | Not implemented                                                                                                |
| JSON Content polymorphism             | ❌   [example](./docs/polymorphism.md#json-content-polymorphism) | Not implemented. Converted to `type MyClass = any`                                                             |
| Edge cases - circular dependencies    | ✅   [example](./docs/edgecases.md)                              |                                                                                                                |
